It seems like there are more and more interesting developments in Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality (XR). It is an exciting technology that has made some significant advances and has become more accessible and more impressive. The price of a decent VR headset has decreased and the number of released VR games is increasing. But there still is room to grow. It’s speculated that Virtual and Augmented Reality (XR) will be one of the technologies to benefit from the adoption of 5G. If this was to happen we could expect to see headsets with less hardware required and more of a reliance on cloud computing. This also seems like a good time for XR to be more widely adopted. It seems that the Covid-19 Pandemic has accelerated the acceptance of remote work and I think that XR could play a pivotal role in skilled remote labor. There is a growing need for professions that would benefit from XR, [semi-automated drone pilots being an example](https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2017/01/drone-pilot-school/515022/). I think that we can expect to see growth in similar XR business opportunities.  All of this to say, XR is the future and it’s exciting. I want in on it!
    
I had not paid much thought to developing in XR, the main reason being the high cost of the hardware and the expected pains of being an early adopter. But the Oculus Quest (owned by Facebook), released in 2019 seemed like a great device to start VR development with. This is a standalone headset that does not require a beefy desktop to run. The headset itself is an Android device that does have some processing limitations but it offers 6 Fields of Motion and it runs a number of popular VR apps such as Super Hot and Beat Saber. Quick sidebar: I think the idea of a standalone headset running Android is interesting sign of how Facebook views the future of XR and I wouldn’t be surprised if the future versions of the Quest have 5G capabilities. I purchased the 64GB Oculus quest and have been overwhelmed with how exciting this technology is, I quickly wanted to get in and make something.

I intend to use Unity Game Engine for developing on the Quest. Setting up the Oculus and Unity for VR Development was not difficult thanks to some good documentation found online. There seems to be a growing amount of quality content on Unity VR development, the YouTube Channel (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCPJlesN59MzHPPCp0Lg8sLw)[Valem] has a great introductory series that I have been going through. Following his tutorials I made my first VR game, a bowling game that is sure to make Wii Sports look like child’s play. While it doesn’t look like much, there really is something magical about being able to make something on my computer, press a few buttons, put on a headset and be instantly transported into my own project, its very cool. Overall I am impressed with how easy this was to get into developing for VR, I hope to keep documenting my progress and I encourage everyone to give VR a try!